---
date: 2021-02-22 12:26:40
layout: post
title: The Case for Disinfection Robots
image: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dohsdvjjj/image/upload/v1607304240/kelly-sikkema-YK0HPwWDJ1I-unsplash_ywtauy.jpg
optimized_image: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dohsdvjjj/image/upload/c_scale,w_380/v1607304240/kelly-sikkema-YK0HPwWDJ1I-unsplash_ywtauy.jpg
category: robotics
tags:
  - science
author: stephenchien
paginate: true
---


The COVID-19 pandemic has created a series of shortages for both items and the time of certain professionals.  With the world’s new emphasis on disinfection, the time of workers whose jobs include or focus on cleaning has been made even more valuable, and they have been putting in long hours for low wages.  Their continued cleaning work has put them at high risk of contracting the disease, and they require PPE, which they sometimes lack access to because of its scarcity.  A number of pressing issues accompany their continued in-person work, such as the limited amount of childcare access they have.  As such, we recommend the use of disinfection robots to efficiently decontaminate areas in schools, hospitals, businesses, and other locations.  They would help solve or work toward solving the problems listed above by rectifying the imbalances between supply and demand born from the pandemic.


Among the many consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic is the newly heightened interest in sanitizing areas in a quick and efficient manner.  However, with the focus on supplying doctors and nurses with the required personal protective equipment (PPE), maintenance workers in all areas—school janitors to hospital orderlies—have sometimes been left behind.  Though not always directly exposed to infected patients, custodians have the job of disinfecting a variety of locations in schools, hospitals, nursing homes, supermarkets, and more.  Whether or not they have the PPE they need, they are being put in harm’s way.  In many cases, replacing their jobs in part or full by robots could be significant in reducing the spread, especially because the people who work such jobs are often scared to take days off for fear of being fired and losing valuable income.  By using efficient robots to clean possibly contaminated areas, we could stop putting workers at risk; this would also limit the amount of workers who lack adequate childcare, protect lives, and conserve PPE in the process.

One of the most pressing issues at the start of the pandemic, and one that has continued throughout its duration, is the shortage of necessary items.  Initially the population fought over toilet paper rolls, but more concerning for healthcare workers has been a nearly constant strain on PPE supplies.  Rationing necessary high-quality supplies, like gloves, masks, and face shields, has been common.  This pinch on PPE has been felt by others who work in highly exposed but low-paying jobs like hospital orderlies or janitors.  As seen in Figure 1, orderlies are among the workers with the highest contact and risk, and yet they have to perform their job at a low compensation.  Their many duties include cleaning and disinfecting medical equipment, even more chances they have to catch COVID.  By using robots to disinfect equipment and patient rooms, already overworked orderlies would have more time to perform other parts of their job; the limited supply of time they have would be better spent when some of the demand for it gets shifted to demand for a robot’s time.  Orderlies are just one example of the many lower-paying professions whose duties include or are focused on cleaning.  People in these jobs would spend less time being potentially exposed to COVID, and if they did not need to perform cleaning duties as frequently, they would also be helping save PPE that could be used for others struggling to acquire it.  With extra time spent not cleaning, workers could stay at home, slowing the spread of the disease and avoiding the need for and expense of childcare that many cleaning professionals face during their working hours.

In order to combat these issues, a Danish company called UVD Robots has developed a disinfection robot that uses UV light. The robot can be deployed in hospitals, schools, and businesses. Using its multiple lidar sensors, the robot can create a virtual map of any environment and clean 99% of all germs in 10-15 minutes. Its technology allows it to erase DNA or RNA microorganisms in ceiling tiles, floors, and other hard to reach areas. Because the robot can be controlled remotely, people do not have to be present at the scene. Furthermore, because of the robot’s simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) technology, the robot can go through hallways and in elevators to disinfect an area. The robot can also remember the mapping of a specific location, so if the location needs to be disinfected again, the robot does not have to scan another time. 

The biggest concerns that emerge from the implementation of robots like those developed by UVD Robots are the seemingly high price and possibility that these robots will eventually take away jobs from the working-class. However, if these robots are used as intended and to their full potential, it is clear that the benefits that UV disinfection robots are able to provide far outweigh the costs. First and foremost, it is undeniable that the use of these robots in generally crowded areas will prevent the spread of COVID-19 and other viruses; in that regard, the lives that they would save are already priceless. Small businesses in a highly active COVID-19 location would be able to remain in business for a longer period of time. Furthermore, each individual robot would cost around $80,000-90,000, which, relative to other standard medical equipment, is considered a rather affordable appliance for most health facilities. It can also prove to be a worthy investment for schools, seeing as its potential use in school buildings could help ensure students and teachers’ safe return to in-person instruction. Online instruction has made learning and teaching significantly more stressful, and re-opening schools would help students remain focused on their work and continue to make strides in their education.  UVD robots are also simply more efficient and can more easily disinfect an entire area than humans, making them not only useful but needed during the pandemic.

Looking at the pressing issues the pandemic has brought, it seems clear that we must take action.  Given the depth of talent our society possesses, it is possible to use robotics to benefit and save the lives of those who work in some of the most undervalued professions.  The high demand for cleaning and disinfecting surfaces and equipment has kept janitors, custodians, and others working in person while many can work safely from their homes.  Sanitizing robots like those from UVD Robots would be a fantastic addition to our arsenal of anti-COVID measures.  With a high enough prevalence of robots like these, we could lower their cost, making them more accessible for even more hospitals, schools, and businesses.  In doing so, we could help tackle some of the biggest issues many low wage cleaning workers face, such as their high risk for COVID and lack of adequate childcare, while simultaneously conserving PPE for other professions who need it.






